download git from Internet:
git-scm/download/win

launch bash.
created folder on destop called gitapp. (right click n select bash here)  new
window opens in this directory.

command touch allows you to create files:
touch index.html  (file will be created in this directory)
touch app.js
touch mynotes.txt
touch gitignore


open up VS and browse to this folder open html file: see folder:
i created html,head,title,head,body. in this file via VS

go back to your bash and type: git init (this command creates repository ".git" on local pc)
now we initialized this folder as a git repository and we can use git commands.
ADD your name and email
git config --global user.name "David Martinez"
git config --global user.email "davmart2002@yahoo.com"

now we can add index.html to our git repository with this command:
git add index.html
this doesn't tell us anything once added, so verify by git status (tells us what's in the staging file.)

git status 
note: look for "changes to be commited"  these are the files in stage. untracked files will not be added.
to remove this file from commited
git --cached index.html
git status  (no files to commit in stage area)
git add *.html   ( * will add all html files into stage area)
git add .  (dot says add everything to stage area)
git status  (verify)

if you change your index.html in VS and save it when you do git status it will cry
"changes not staged for commit" shows modified: index.html

to fit this just re add file than do another git status and error show go away.

type git commit (since i choose VS it opens in VS)
read through and uncomment "intial commit"  note if you see dot next to file its not save.  ctl+S  saves it.

everytime you change something in VS like this text file you have to do a git status
here you will see mynotes has been modified and you need to commit to git repository by doing git commit 
type commit in editor save it and close .
shortcut would be this type git commit -m "change to mynotes.txt"  enter  now you will not see VS editor come up.

you need to add .gitignore folder and put files you dont want to commit. here how
create new folder using touch .gitignore
create log.txt file using touch log.txt
open VS and put log.txt inside gitignore folder
go to bash and do git status and you only see new gitignore folder to commit 
commit it 
now when you edit log.txt and save it it will not be added as a changed file cuz its in gitignore folder